---
layout: post
title: Happy Feast of Pope Saint Martin I!
date: 2010-04-14 01:40:58.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- essays
tags:
- catholic
- saints
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
By what name shall I address thee, O Martin!
Shall I call thee the glorious leader of the Orthodox Faith for all?
Or the sacred chief of divine dogmas speaking nought but truth?
Or the most true reprover of error? ...
We know that thou wast the foundation of bishops, pillar of the Orthodox Faith, teacher of religion. ...
Thou didst adorn the Divine See of Peter, and since then thou on his divine Rock hast preserved the Church immovable, so now with him [Peter] art thou glorified.
What shall we call you now, Martin?
Celebrated instructor in orthodox teachings;
sure leader of the choir of priests in the precepts of God,
most faithful denouncer of falsehood,
most valiant companion of the word,
most holy performer of the sacred mysteries,
most honored wonder-worker!
**Pray that our souls may be saved!**
What shall we call you now, Martin?
River full of spiritual waters,
ever watering souls for spiritual fertility,
lamp shining with the light of piety,
mountain pouring forth divine joy,
revealer of the words of God,
denouncer of every heresy!
**Pray that our souls may be saved!**
What shall we call you now, Martin?
All-revered celebrant of the true tabernacle,
godly mediator between God and creation,
cup pouring forth divine drink,
beacon possessing the word of life,
proceeding from the West and made manifest in the East!
**Pray that our souls may be saved!**
&mdash; from Kalendarium Manuale Utriusque Ecclesiae Orientalis et Occidentalis, by Nicolaus Nilles, S.J., Innsbruck, 1897.
