---
layout: post
title: Happy Feast of Saint Benedict Joseph Labre!
date: 2010-04-16 14:44:54.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- essays
tags:
- catholic
- saints
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
This French saint, born in 1748, led a most unusual life. He was the son of a storeowner and was taught by his uncle, a priest. When the good priest died, Benedict tried to enter a monastery. But he was told that he was too young. Next Benedict contacted another order of monks. He loved their life of prayer and penance. But after he joined them, Benedict became thin and weak. The monks suggested that he return home to lead a good Christian life. Benedict went home and slowly gained back his health. He prayed for God’s help. Then he felt he was given an answer. He would become a pilgrim, a person on a holy journey of prayer and penance. As a pilgrim, he would travel to the famous shrines of Europe. Benedict began his journey on foot. He visited one church after another. He wore a plain cloth robe, a crucifix over his heart and a rosary around his neck. He slept on the bare ground. The only food he had was what kind people gave him. If they gave him money, he passed it on to the poor. His “suitcase” was a sack. In it he carried his own Gospel, as well as medals and holy books to give to others. Benedict paid no attention to the beautiful sights in the cities he visited. His only interest was in the churches where Jesus dwelt in the Blessed Sacrament. In 1774, Benedict stayed in Rome. People began calling him “the beggar of Rome.” He never asked for anything that would make his life more comfortable. Sometimes children threw stones at him and called him names. People who didn’t know him tended to avoid him. But when Benedict knelt in front of the tabernacle, he became as still as a statue. His pale, tired face glowed. He would talk to Jesus and to the Blessed Mother. He would whisper, “Mary, O my Mother!” He was really the happiest when he was keeping Jesus and the Blessed Mother company. Benedict died in Rome in 1783 at the age of thirty- five. The fame of this poor holy man spread far and wide. His journey had ended. His pilgrimage was over. Now he would be with Jesus and Mary forever. One hundred years after his death, Benedict Joseph Labre was proclaimed a saint by Pope Leo XIII in 1883.
&mdash; via "[Saints for Young Readers for Every Day of the Year](http://jclubcatholic.org/stories/saints_april.php#16)." [Daughters of St. Paul](http://www.daughtersofstpaul.com/).
