---
layout: post
title: 'Wikileaks: "Information Vandalism" not "Whistleblowing"'
date: 2010-12-31 15:05:20.000000000 -08:00
categories:
- links
tags:
- cult.ure
- open government
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
Link: <a href="http://goo.gl/OHbba">Wikileaks: "Information Vandalism" not "Whistleblowing"</a>
> WikiLeaks says that it is dedicated to fighting censorship, so a casual observer might assume that it is more or less a conventional liberal enterprise committed to enlightened democratic policies.  But on closer inspection that is not quite the case.  In fact, WikiLeaks must be counted among the enemies of open society because it does not respect the rule of law nor does it honor the rights of individuals.
> Last year, for example, WikiLeaks published the "secret ritual" of a college women’s sorority called Alpha Sigma Tau.  Now Alpha Sigma Tau (like several other sororities "exposed" by WikiLeaks) is not known to have engaged in any form of misconduct, and WikiLeaks does not allege that it has.  Rather, WikiLeaks chose to publish the group’s confidential ritual just because it could.  This is not whistleblowing and it is not journalism.  It is a kind of **information vandalism**.
> In fact, WikiLeaks routinely tramples on the privacy of non-governmental, non-corporate groups for no valid public policy reason.  It has published private rites of Masons, Mormons and other groups that cultivate confidential relations among their members.  Most or all of these groups are defenseless against WikiLeaks’ intrusions.  The only weapon they have is public contempt for WikiLeaks’ ruthless violation of their freedom of association, and even that has mostly been swept away in a wave of uncritical and even adulatory reporting about the brave "open government," "whistleblower" site.
