---
layout: post
title: The Seven Fatima Prayers
date: 2010-05-13 02:56:07.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- essays
tags:
- catholic
- saints
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
May 13th is the [Feast of Our Lady of Fatima](http://michael.f1337.us/post/593604855)! Join me in celebration and prayer, as I post the seven Fatima Prayers to Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Every hour, from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM EDT (GMT-4), I will post one of the prayers in whole or in part (see below), including a shortened "re-tweet-able" variation. Please feel free to repost, re-tweet and/or translate the prayers for your own friends and followers.
### The Pardon Prayer
_8:00 AM_
> My God, I believe, I adore, I trust and I love You! I beg pardon for all those that do not believe, do not adore, do not trust and do not love You!
Shortened for Twitter, etc:
> God, I believe, adore, trust & love You! I beg pardon for those who don't believe, adore, trust & love You!
### The Sacrifice Prayer
_9:00 AM_
> O Jesus, it is for love of You, for the conversion of sinners, and in reparation for the sins committed against the Immaculate Heart of Mary [that I pray].
Shortened for Twitter, etc:
> O Jesus, for love of You, conversion of sinners, & reparation for sins against the Immaculate Heart of Mary
### The Decade Prayer
_10:00 AM_
> O my Jesus, forgive us our sins, save us from the fires of hell. Lead all souls to Heaven, and help especially those in most need of Your Mercy.
Shortened for Twitter, etc:
> O my Jesus, forgive us, save us from hell. Lead all souls to Heaven, esp. those in most need of Your Mercy.
### The Eucharistic Adoration Prayer
_11:00 AM_
> O Most Holy Trinity, I adore You! My God, my God, I love You in the Most Blessed Sacrament!
### The Salvation Prayer
_12:00 PM_
> Sweet Heart of Mary, be the salvation of Russia, Spain, Portugal, Europe and the whole world.
### The Conversion Prayer
_1:00 PM_
> By your pure and Immaculate Conception, O Mary, obtain the conversion of Russia, Spain, Portugal, Europe and the entire world.
Shortened for Twitter, etc:
> By your Immaculate Conception, O Mary, obtain the conversion of Russia, Spain, Portugal, Europe & the world
### The Guardian Angel of Portugal’s Prayer, part 1
_2:00 PM_
> O Most Holy Trinity, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, I adore You profoundly.
### The Guardian Angel of Portugal’s Prayer, part 2
_3:00 PM_
> I offer You the most precious Body, Blood, Soul and Divinity of Jesus Christ present in all the tabernacles of the world…
Shortened for Twitter, etc:
> I offer You the precious Body, Blood, Soul & Divinity of Jesus Christ in all the tabernacles of the world…
### The Guardian Angel of Portugal’s Prayer, part 3
_4:00 PM_
> …in reparation for the outrages, sacrileges and indifferences by which He is offended.
### The Guardian Angel of Portugal’s Prayer, part 4
_5:00 PM_
> By the infinite merits of the Sacred Heart of Jesus and the Immaculate Heart of Mary, I beg the conversion of poor sinners.
Shortened for Twitter, etc:
> By the merits of the Sacred Heart of Jesus & the Immaculate Heart of Mary, I beg the conversion of sinners.
