---
layout: post
title: Happy Feast of Saint Stanislaus!
date: 2010-04-11 14:19:05.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- essays
tags:
- catholic
- saints
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
St. Stanislaus was born near Kracow, Poland, in 1030. His parents had prayed for thirty years for a child. When Stanislaus was born, they offered him to God because they were so grateful to have him. When he grew up, Stanislaus went to study in Paris, France. After his parents died, he gave all the money and property they had left him to the poor. Then he became a priest. In 1072, Stanislaus was made the bishop of Kracow. Bishop Stanislaus won the love of all the people. He was an excellent preacher, and many people turned to him for spiritual advice. They especially appreciated the way he took care of the poor, the widows and the orphans. Often he served them himself. Poland’s king at that time was Boleslaus II. He was cruel and was living in a sinful way. The people were disgusted with his lifestyle and were afraid of him. Bishop Stanislaus first corrected him privately. The bishop was kind and respectful. But he was honest, too, and told the king that what he was doing was wrong. The king seemed sorry, but soon fell back into his old ways. He committed even more shameful sins. The bishop then had to put him out of the Church. King Boleslaus flew into a rage at that. To get revenge, he ordered two of his guards to kill Stanislaus. Three times they tried, and three times they failed. When the king heard this, he was angrier than ever. He himself rushed into the bishop’s chapel and murdered Bishop Stanislaus as he was celebrating Mass. It was April 11, 1079. God worked many miracles after Stanislaus’s death. All the people called him a martyr. He was proclaimed a saint by Pope Innocent IV in 1253. St. Stanislaus is the patron saint of Poland.
&mdash; via "[Saints for Young Readers for Every Day of the Year](http://jclubcatholic.org/stories/saints_april.php#11)." [Daughters of St. Paul](http://www.daughtersofstpaul.com/).
