---
layout: post
title: Happy Feast of Blessed Anna Schäffer!
date: 2010-04-15 12:10:25.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- essays
tags:
- catholic
- saints
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
This saint was born in Bavaria, Germany, in 1882. When she was old enough to help support her large family, Anna started working. She hoped that one day she would be able to enter the convent and become a missionary sister. In order to prepare herself, Anna offered her life to God and did all she could to help others in need. When she was nineteen, Anna had a terrible accident in the laundry where she worked. She fell into a tub of boiling bleach. She spent a year in the hospital, and was treated by specialists. The doctors tried their best, but they were unable to heal her wounds. Anna was confined to her bed for the rest of her life. Because she was unable to work, she was forced to live in poverty. At first, Anna felt angry about the way things had turned out for her. But little by little, she began to understand the value of suffering, especially when it was united to Jesus’ sufferings on the cross. She realized that she could still help others, but in a different way than she had originally hoped. She could offer her sufferings to Jesus for the salvation of souls. The priest who brought Anna Holy Communion every morning noticed the change in her. At the end of her life, he could say that he never heard her complain in the twenty-five years that he knew her. Besides offering her sufferings to God, Anna was able to use her sewing needle to embroider beautiful linens for churches. She especially liked to embroider images of Jesus’ Sacred Heart. Anna also wrote letters to people in Austria, Switzerland, and America. These people wrote to her and asked for prayers and advice, and she wrote back to them with words of faith and hope and love of God. By writing these letters, Anna had become a missionary after all. Anna Schäffer died in 1925. Pope John Paul II declared her blessed in 1999.
&mdash; via "[Saints for Young Readers for Every Day of the Year](http://jclubcatholic.org/stories/saints_april.php#15)." [Daughters of St. Paul](http://www.daughtersofstpaul.com/).
