---
layout: post
title: The Mark Cuban Stimulus Plan - Open Source Funding
date: 2009-08-27 17:39:00.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- links
tags:
- tech
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
Link: <a href="http://blogmaverick.com/2009/02/09/the-mark-cuban-stimulus-plan-open-source-funding/">The Mark Cuban Stimulus Plan - Open Source Funding</a>
Mark Cuban has freely provided some of the best guidelines for startups-seeking-funding I've read:
> 1. It can be an existing business or a start up.
> 2. It can not be a business that generates any revenue from advertising. Why? Because I want this to be a business where you sell something and get paid for it. That's the only way to get and stay profitable in such a short period of time.
> 3. It MUST BE CASH FLOW BREAK EVEN within 60 days.
> 4. It must be profitable within 90 days.
> 5. Funding will be on a monthly basis. If you don't make your numbers, the funding stops.
> 6. You must demonstrate as part of your plan that you sell your product or service for more than what it costs you to produce, fully encumbered.
> 7. Everyone must work. The organization is completely flat. There are no employees reporting to managers. There is the founder/owners and everyone else.
> 8.  You must post your business plan here, or you can post it on slideshare.com, scribd.com or google docs, all completely public for anyone to see and/or download.
> 9. I make no promises that if your business is profitable, that I will invest more money. Once you get the initial funding you are on your own.
> 10. I will make no promises that I will be available to offer help. If I want to, I will. If not, I won't.
> 11. If you do get money, it goes into a bank that I specify, and I have the ability to watch the funds flow and the opportunity to require that I cosign any outflows.
> 12. In your business plan, make sure to specify how much equity I will receive or how I will get a return on my money.
> 13. No mult-level marketing programs.
