---
layout: post
title: Endlessly Meaningless Justification
date: 2009-03-16 20:38:00.000000000 -07:00
categories:
- essays
tags:
- faith
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
"The end excuses any evil." - Sophocles
"All's well that end's well." - Shakespeare
The argument is one of the oldest forms of Utilitarianism, a misleading attempt to "numerically justify" Hedonist exploitation of human beings:
http://oce.catholic.com/index.php?title=Utilitarianism
There is no greater injury one can inflict upon another human being, than to betray Caritas: that "superabundance of love" (Aristotle), "the fundamental inclination which is stamped upon every being by the Author of nature" (St. Thomas Aquinas). It is better for a soul to die than to commit such a betrayal. Yet we have *all* committed such betrayals:
> "Things that cause sin will inevitably occur, but woe to the person through whom they occur. It would be better for him if a millstone were put around his neck and he be thrown into the sea than for him to cause one of these little ones to sin." (Jesus: Luke 17:1-2)
How then can we undo what has been done? We cannot. We find ourselves faced with a choice. Cowardice and pride urge us to deceive ourselves with philosophies that redefine the injury:
> Utilitarianism: The injury was a "necessary evil".
> Relativism: The injury was not "evil", simply "unpleasant".
> Nihilism: There was no injury, only consequence.
Our own Caritas, however, urges us to repair the injury, begging humility from the offender, and forgiveness from the offended:
> "Above all, let your love for one another be intense, because love covers a multitude of sins." (St. Peter: 1 Peter 4:8)
>
> "Hatred stirs up disputes, but love covers all offenses." (Solomon: Proverbs 10:12)
>
> "Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things." (St. Paul: 1 Corinthians 13:7)
>
> "If your brother sins, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him. And if he wrongs you seven times in one day and returns to you seven times saying, 'I am sorry,' you should forgive him." (Jesus: Luke 17:3-4)
>
> "Love is the light - and in the end, the only light - that can always illuminate a world grown dim and give us the courage needed to keep living and working. Love is possible, and we are able to practise it because we are created in the image of God." (Pope Benedict XVI: [Deus Caritas Est](http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/encyclicals/documents/hf_ben-xvi_enc_20051225_deus-caritas-est_en.html))
-michael
PS. Speaking of raiding windmills: http://xkcd.com/556/ ;)
